In the previous video, we already create a
topology for practice about VTP.
Now in this video, we are going to practice
about VTP.
In the previous video, I told you that we
have 2 mode in VTP, which is server and client.
Vtp server will create a vlan, and then the
vlan on vtp client will be created automatically.
But actually, we have 3 mode in VTP, which
is server, client, and transparent.
Okay, let’s just start.
Let’s say we will configure switch 1 as server,
switch 2 as transparent, switch 3 as client
and switch 4 as a server again.
In the network, we can have multiple VTP server
like this.
Okay now let’s start configuring VTP.
Let’s start with switch 1.
First we need to configure the mode, the command
is vtp mode switch 1 will become server,
so the mode is server.
Next we need to configure domain, vtp domain
and the domain let’s say agunacourse.
Remember that the domain name must be same
on all switches.
Next we need to configure the password.
Actually this is optional, but for security
reason, let’s configure the password.
The command is vtp password and then the password,
let’s say 123.
Okay now we have done configuring VTP on switch 1.
Next, let’s configure VTP on switch 2.
Here we will configure as vtp transparent,
so vtp mode transparent.
Next, let’s configure the domain, vtp domain
and remember that the domain of all switches
must be same, so the domain is agunacourse.
Last let’s configure the password, the password
of all switches is also must be same.
So here vtp password 123.
Next let’s configure on switch 3.
The mode will be client.
So Vtp mode client, vtp domain agunacourse,
and then vtp password 123.
Okay we have done on switch 3.
Last, let’s configure on swich 4.
We will configure this switch as a server.
VTP mode server, vtp domain agunacourse and
then vtp password 123.
Okay, now we have done configuring VTP on
all switches.
I think enough for this video.
In the next video, we are going to do testing the vtp configuration.
Thank you for watching and see you on the
next video.